---
title: Making GitHub deploy this site
description: with github actions
date: 2022-11-23
tags:
  - github
layout: layouts/post.njk
---

[GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) are great! Probably the
best way to run little CI scripts - **for free** - against your repositories. I
maintain several of them for work, including
[aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials](https://github.com/aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials).
Unfortunately, their ease of use means that a lot of the actions out there are
fairly low quality, and if you're using actions authored by others you have to be
very careful about your reliance on tooling that you don't control.

But this has been talked about before. Precautions like pinning action versions
to a specific commit SHA (instead of a branch name or a tag), and being careful
about what dependencies you accept are part of software supply chain management,
and GitHub Actions aren't immune from these problems.

OK, so that brings me to my issue. This website is hosted at my home, and I'm
pretty leary of running an unrestricted SFTP or SSH server open to the world on
my home network, even if it's on a different port and the web server is
well-firewalled in both directions. So instead I've set up access to an
SFTP-only server running in a chroot, so that way I can use GitHub Actions to
push my built website up whenever I make a push to the `main` branch. All I have
to do is create a workflow step that `uses` someone else's pre-made SFTP action!

I tried a couple of actions out there. None of the popular ones work. They
* are typically built as Docker actions, which means they have a longish startup
time
* assume that they can `ssh` into the server. They're doing things like running
a tarpipe, slinging temporary files around, or just opening a shell and `rm`-ing
stuff. None of that works on my server, because you *must* connect with the
`sftp` subsystem.

So instead I hacked together my own solution, using the `sftp` client. Luckily
this is available as part of the `openssh` package that is
[preinstalled on the ubuntu-latest images](https://github.com/actions/runner-images/blob/main/images/linux/Ubuntu2204-Readme.md)
currently in use. Protip: they also include `yarn` by default now, so no more
installing that. The issue is that the `sftp` client does not have an `rm -R`
command! And we need to remove the existing website before we shove a new one in
its place (and I don't want to go through the hassle of setting up `rsync`; I
already had a working jailed SFTP server).

That's where the hacky part comes in. I don't like this, but it works.

```yaml
- run: |
    find public_html -type f > rm-list
    sed -i rm-list -e 's/^/rm /'
    echo "rm public_html/assets/css/*" >> rm-list
    find public_html -type d | awk '{ print length, $0 }' | sort -nr | cut -d" " -f2- > rm-dir
    sed -i rm-dir -e 's/^/rmdir /'
- run: >
    echo -e "$(cat rm-list)"\\nbye |
    sftp -q -C -i id_rsa -P ${{ secrets.PORT }} -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no ${{ secrets.USERNAME }}@${{ secrets.HOST }}
- run: >
    echo -e "$(cat rm-dir)"\\nbye |
    sftp -q -C -i id_rsa -P ${{ secrets.PORT }} -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no ${{ secrets.USERNAME }}@${{ secrets.HOST }}
- run: >
    echo -e "put -R public_html"\\nbye |
    sftp -q -C -i id_rsa -P ${{ secrets.PORT }} -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no ${{ secrets.USERNAME }}@${{ secrets.HOST }}
```

Gross. Anyways, full source is
[here](https://github.com/kellertk/tompkel.net/blob/ee80d885a65bcf6160f5ba4bf95464606e2943b3/.github/workflows/build-and-push.yml).
